# surfUGproject


** **# Surf Intangible Heritage **

Abstract: ** The Classical Gardens of Suzhou have thousands of visitors every year; however, besides the virtual reality that covers tangible cultural heritage, such as the virtual products of physical artefacts and their transmission in a society, intangible cultural heritage is surprisingly overlooked. Thus, evolving Wu(吴) cultural knowledge and social skills which are transmitted through learning and tradition can be a challenge with the use of robots assisting in the Classical Gardens. Through a participatory design approach, this project will use Walt Disney Animation as means to build up a repository of HeritageBot with intelligence interfaces to better support visitors’ cultural knowledge and social skills experience.

Research Question How can cultural knowledge and social skills learning be enhanced through an animation-oriented HeritageBot with intelligence interfaces?

Project Plan The wide range of application domains in which animation can be used and the various purposes that it can achieve have certainly expanded its usefulness and multiplied its benefits for users. However, applying animation in HeritageBot with intelligent interfaces for intangible cultural heritage has, in turn, raised many issues highlighting principally that animation cannot always be effective and achieve the same purposes in the same way (Hornecker and Ciolfi, 2019). This high disparity in the value of animation in user interfaces has consequently led to discrepant opinions between those endorsing the use of animation and those dissuading its use. This controversy leads us to the question of how to enhance cultural knowledge and social skills learning through an animation-oriented HeritageBot with intelligence interfaces and how to run empirical experiments with people to evaluate the animations. To answer this question, we must contextualize the domain where the animation will be deployed, that is, how HeritageBot can collaboratively work with visitors to better cater to the needs of knowing and learning Wu(吴) cultural knowledge and social skills. In addition, we must observe how visitors interact with animation in the interfaces of a HeritageBot to provide feedback on their visiting experiences. These questions would help us decipher what HeritageBot designers face in creating an effective animation and what designers think about using animation to gain a deep understanding of visualizing intangible cultural heritage in intelligent interfaces of HeritageBot.

Since HeritageBot design calls for a holistic characterization of staged animation across several disciplines (knowledge management, animation in HeritageBot, and intelligent visualization), we will provide a framework for students which contributes in four dimensions – cooperation, dynamic, intelligence, and visualization – to user interfaces developed in a HeritageBot. In line with the four dimensions, three students will be responsible for three main tasks. The distribution of workloads will be as follows:

    Cooperative interaction scaling and information categorisation.
    Algorithmic selection of combined animate information visualisation.
    Intelligent visualization.

Research Methodology

We propose qualitative exploration as the main research methodology to guide the technical implementation of the HeritageBot design. The methodology contributes in two main aspects: 1) identifying the motivation and rationales behind using and discarding animation in intelligent interfaces of a HeritageBot and providing examples of the types of animation HeritageBot and visitors most often apply and 2) exploring how participants design their own animation to know whether they founded their choices on design rationales and whether they communicated certain knowledge of intangible cultural heritage (Giglitto et al., 2021a, 2021b) in the HeritageBot through those animation choices. These two aspects serve as the fundamental bases for classifying interactive animations and their combinations for further information visualization. Through this methodology, we hope to identify as many roles of animation in interfaces as possible, consisting of a multi-step process, where algorithmic animate information classification and visualization can be used as tools for building a HeritageBot with animation-oriented intelligent interfaces to support cultural knowledge and social skills learning. The terminology for the research methodology is further explained below.

Qualitative exploration. Qualitative exploration addresses problems of interaction design: delivering novel designs, evaluating existing designs, and understanding user need for future designs. Qualitative exploration plays an essential role in this enterprise, particularly in understanding user needs and behaviours and evaluating the situated use of technology. It provides rich descriptions of those accountable practical actions and reasoning of users and translates (Crabtree et al, 2012, Pan, 2021) and categorizes (Bowker and Star, 1999) those accounts into iterated engineering development of the HeritageBot. Through qualitative exploration of animation practices in interfaces with different types of visitors, we will derive an initial taxonomy by grouping animation techniques into roles and discussing among visitors and the design team (supervisors and students). This systematical approach will guide us to identify those HeritageBot scenarios proposed by Baecker and Small (1990) to seek a guarantee of all-inclusive correspondence. Moreover, we will be able to consider additional scenarios and group them into categories.

Algorithmic animate information classification and visualization. In line with identified animation roles in a repository of HeritageBot and their visualization in intelligent interfaces, a sematic design process (Thomas and Fellmann, 2009) could help us refine and remove those minor roles (very few instances) and hybrid roles (covering two or more existing roles) and generate different layers of a comprehensive interface specification. By doing so, we can incorporate a focus on animation-action relationships between visitors and HeritageBot and implement those relationships into conceptual model grammar (Bardi, 1996) with the lowest cognitive complexity at the very start of the project. We can then actively reinforce it within the upper-layer decisions we make to visualize an indistinguishable barrier (Shneiderman et al., 2018) of visitors and HeritageBot in cultural knowledge and social skills learning with intelligence interfaces for intangible cultural heritage.

Anticipated Research Outcomes

The following are the anticipated research outcomes.

    A structured view of animation goals in a contextualized setting – visitors, in our case – will be outlined. This view could offer a classification of the drawbacks of animation perceived and experienced by the participants of our exploration using and not using a set of factors characterizing both the design and use of animation in HeritageBot and its intelligent interfaces.
    A set of dimensions to characterise dynamic changes in visualisations that allow the project to divide the main question into the following questions: What are the precise components that are affected by a given dynamic animation change? How can those changes be implemented through visualising dynamic and intelligent interactional behaviours? Furthermore, the results of this project will contribute to human computer interaction in cultural heritage studies: effectiveness and achievements of technology use in learning cultural knowledge.
    A design space that allows a holistic characterisation of staged animation across several visual states (layers of interfaces) of an intelligent visualization. A prototype will be built to articulate our design paradigm as well as suggest a list of metrics to measure the value of animation in creating a repository of HeritageBot.

Anticipated Learning Outcomes and Benefits to Students In addition to the aforementioned anticipated learning outcomes, we foresee other results and benefits for students. For example, students in the CPT department also include those from the Design School to grow their experiences in interactive system design with a unique focus on interactive cultural heritage.

Students will learn the fast-growing qualitative research methodology in the general HCI field, particularly the fieldwork for informing systems design. This research methodology is successfully practiced in both Europe and the USA but is currently largely missing from most Asian countries. Upon completion, this project can serve as a demo to larger student groups in our school.

Students will gain the opportunity to explore cutting-edge research (animation in interactive cultural heritage) and establish know-how expertise to further their research outlook in HCI and cultural heritage. Students will learn cross-disciplinary knowledge, such as information science, and put that knowledge into contextualized research areas with hands-on practice, that is, developing interactive cultural heritage applications.

Reference

    Geoffrey C. Bowker and Susan Leigh Star. 1999. Sorting Things Out. Classification and Its Consequences. MIT Press. Cambridge, MA.
    Ronald Baecker and Ian Small. 1990. Animation at the Interface. The Art of Human-Computer Interface Design. 251-267 Wiley.
    Oliver Thomas and Michael Fellmann. 2009. Semantic Process Modelling – Design and Implementation of an Ontology-based Presentation of Business Process. Business & Information Systems Engineering, 1:6, 438-451
    Bonnie A. Nardi (1996) Studying context: A comparison of activity theory, situated action models and distributed cognition. Context and Consciousness: Activity Theory and Human-Computer Interaction. MIT Press.
    Ben Shneiderman, Catherine Plaisant, Maxine Cohen, Steven Jacobs. 2018. Designing the User Interface: Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction. 6th Edition. Pearson Press.
    Danilo Giglitto, Luigina Ciolfi, Wolfgang Bosswick. 2021a. 'Building a bridge: opportunities and challenges for intangible cultural heritage at the intersection of institutions, civic society, and migrant communities'. International Journal of Heritage Studies.
    Daniela Petrelli, Luigina Ciolfi, Gabriela Avram. 2021b. 'Envisioning, designing, and rapid prototyping heritage installations with a tangible interaction toolkit'. Human-Computer Interaction, :1-41
    Andrew Crabtree, Mark Rouncefield, and Peter Tolmie. 2012. Doing Design Ethnography. Springer, London, UK.
    Yushan Pan. 2021. Reflexivity of Account, Professional Vision, and Computer-Supported Cooperative Work. ACM CSCW’21, PACM on Human Computer Interaction, Vol 5, CSCW2, Article 370
